okay so now you go from sitcoms to Fear
Factor
so how the hell yeah and why well it
happened NBC came up to me with the idea
because I was on NBC previously and they
liked me and then part of the thing was
that I didn't want to work with actress
anymore
I was I was happy that Fear Factor was
no actors and I was like oh good this is
easier to do it's just me talking to
people and since I had a background in
coaching because I had coached a lot of
people at tournaments in competition and
I taught a lot at Boston University I
taught at my own school I you know with
Taekwondo I was used to teaching people
and I was used to encouraging people and
and getting people motivated and I knew
how to I knew how to get fired up for
competition I understood you were are
saying you were actually one of the rare
people in the world he was actually
trained to be the right host for fear
factor yeah a lot of ways luckily
fortuitously because I like I would when
someone was nervous they're about to do
something I could grab them and go look
at me you could do this this is gonna
define you with you if you back off
right now and you get scared you give in
to your fears your anxieties this is
gonna define you or if you just press
forward and realize you can do this and
succeed it will define you in a positive
way and you'll build momentum in that
direction you can do this and I would I
was really good at giving people pep
talks I was really good at firing people
up and it was part of the gig that it
was like it was completely unexpected
because I thought the gig was just gonna
be these people do these crazy things
and you know I make fun of it which is
part of my job and I you know we all
cheer and and it would all play itself
out because it was a reality show it was
sort of a game show slash reality show
was like a hybrid but somewhere along
the line especially when they became
really nervous it was very intense and
there was moments where I really are one
of these people to win you know one of
these people to do their best and one of
these people to succeed you know and to
be able to have heard someone you know
that's the basis of psychotherapy so you
know it's really something to get people
to face their fears I mean you were
doing it in a very idiosyncratic way
very very what unique way but yeah
imagine it was logically compelling very
often got any particular one got any
particular stories from that time you
got a good story from fear factor well
there was one time where there was this
couple not a couple of family it was a
father and a son competing against a
mother and the daughter and the father
and the son were kind of jerks which was
part of the competition there was a lot
of trash-talking but they were really
cocky and they thought that they were
gonna win you know and it was you know
they'd this the parent and child teams
had gotten down to two and it was the
man and his son versus the woman and her
daughter and everybody thought these
jerks were gonna win we're kind of
bummed out about it but the the women
the woman and her child you know they
just rose to the occasion and I mean I
remember talking to them and firing them
up but I still I didn't know if they
could do it
what what was the challenge it was some
crazy thing that they had to climb and
do this thing and the the I I don't
really remember all of it like that a
gather flags and was all for time but
the Sun the kind of jerky Sun the jerky
dad they kept screwing up and they they
fucked up because you know they they
kind of taking it for granted that they
were gonna win and when the pressure hit
them and they knew it was all on the
line a lot of times jerks are just
insecure and when they're under pressure
when they're really faced with real
pressure like this is the real moment
who are you really fuck all that talk
who are you really
they fall apart and
the mother and the daughter one and
you're talking about a hardened crew of
people that watch people eat animal
dicks and jump out of helicopters for
season after season episode after
episode you know we did it a hundred and
something shows a hundred and I don't
even remember how many shows we got
probably 140 episodes of that show
everybody cried he the camera people I
gonna cry now I'm thinking about it
wasn't water the daughter was affecting
I mean there's a justice to it right
there's a comeuppance it was a
comeuppance it was an underdog it was
just seeing their spirit you know when
when they were figuring out a way to win
watching them win but to this day I'll
tell you one of the things this makes me
really happy about this interview so far
is that like I have a tendency to tear
up in interviews as you may have noticed
but this time it was you so I'm I'm
quite pleased about that you doing
yeah yeah but particularly like that sad
things I tear up for happy things you
know that's an interesting thing to
think about too because it's not exactly
happy right it's as you know wouldn't
these people come up to me and they tell
me their stories that often makes me
tear up because it's like it's like this
blast of dead bloody seriousness with a
happy ending
you know so yeah it's a comedy because
it's a happy ending but it's rough and
affecting and it that makes me tear up
and I think my proclivity I've always
kind of had that ever since I was a kid
but seems to have come back to will you
to me yeah yeah always always but it's
always been happy things it's never been
sad things it's very hard to get me to
cry with sad things Saturday's I sort of
just yeah triumph success
yeah people pulling through like
post-fight interviews when I'm when I
work for the UFC but someone has a
particularly incredible performance I
have to fight off tearing up I feel so
happy for them
this isn't it strange that it's that
same response to sorrow it's the same
response to sorrow and triumph yeah you
know like what the hell is up with that
I don't I don't understand that at all I
mean it's also a sign of empathy yes it
is definitely a sign of empathy but it's
what's also odd is that with sad things
I can I can I can objectively analyze
them and I could not get sad I could
understand that this is just life and it
is what it is and I mean I won't feel
good but I won't start weeping I don't
weep first like sad things the way I
weep for happy things
so you that's interesting so so in some
sense you've you've trained yourself to
detach yourself from that kind of sorrow
but not to detach yourself from triumph
I can rationalize and understand sorrow
I can internalize it I get it I know I
know what it is and you know I just get
so happy for people sometimes when
things go well yeah one of my guilty
pleasures is I really like America's Got
Talent and the BBC equivalent what the
hell's the BBC equivalent is it the
x-factor something like that yeah
and it does the same thing to me at sea
somebody could slump out there love
themselves out there on the stage
looking pretty pretty damn dreadful in
about four different dimensions and then
like knock it out of the park really
yeah
it's it's really something to see some
see amazing well because I think weeper
as a human being you realize how hard it
is to overcome competition or these
difficult moments so these these moments
when you're tested and you know there's
fears and insecurities of these people
up to battle as well as the actual
physical task in front of them there's
so
much going on and if there's so much
anticipation and nerves and anxiety
involved in that that to see someone
triumph I mean it's I am a student of
human will I love stories of discipline
and success I don't like bad story I
don't even like going to movies where
they're sad but people tell me about sad
movies and like stop I'm not going that
movie I don't like it I don't want to
see it I'm not interested I know what
sadness is I've been sad I get it I'm
not interested in getting that in a form
of entertainment
I like success I like I like seeing
people triumph I like I like that being
the human spirit manifest itself in
spectacular ways yeah